# Reasons for taking this course

I took this course because I wanted to know what is the buzz behind the word DevOps that has been around for a while, and how 
does it affect software development. I have read that it speeds up software development and improves software quality, and I 
wanted to learn how this is achieved. I also think that this couse provides an outline on how modern sotware processes are 
managed, as I have practical experience only on small-scale sotware development with locally managed version-control. I 
wanted to learn about the different tools used in DevOps and how they relate to each other, as I think there are many sets of 
tools which names themselves do not tell anything about their use.

In addition, I wanted to get a full grip on the ideology behind DevOps, as I was interested to think if such culture could be 
applied in other uses or industries as well. I think many non-software organizations also apply agile methods to improve 
their work, and I think it is nice to know what sort of methodologies different businesses utilize. There is always something 
to learn about how things are arranged in different environments.

I was expecting to learn the motivation and benefits behind the methodology, as I was suspicious if the benefits outweighed 
the workload of setting up a toolchain, let alone the workload of adjusting the whole organization culture towards the DevOps 
model. Also, I wanted to do a hands-on exercise related to the subject, as I think a practical examples are the best way to 
learn.

# Things I learned

* CAMS stands for Culture, Automation, Measurement and Sharing, and the model describes the principles of the DevOps 
movement. I think all these enable the organization to focus on developing things (and people) rather than fixing things. 
Also, similar philosophy is applied in other industries (lean manufacturing, Kaizen).

* Removing the barrier between development and operations requires co-operation and common language between the teams but 
brings significant benefits through time and money savings. The development should keep the operations in their mind when 
planning their work from the grounds up, and vice versa.

* I learned the relevant concepts of continuous development, testing, integration, deployment and delivery and how they are 
related to each other. The full process is managed through a toolchain that contains dedicated software tools for each part.

* I think most benefit is achieved by removing human labor in the chain, i.e. through automation. Especially automated 
testing and integration speeds up the development loop, since most of the bugs are (and should be) found before deployment. 
Before setting up continuous delivery, the organization should be confident that the previous steps are well covered, so that 
the testing part does not end up being outsourced to the user / customer.

* I learned that many organizations successfully utilize DevOps, but have to keep in mind that organizations are not similar, 
and what works for one may not work for another. The transition towards DevOps model should not be tight-planned but somewhat 
organically driven.

* I finally got a reason to learn how to use git and GitHub, as I previously had not a real need to do that. I did not know 
how versatile the system was prior to the course, and it was also nice to learn how to use GitHub Pages as well. Also, it was 
interesting to see how the continuous delivery approach can be applied even to simple web pages.

